## SVG vs. Bitmapped
### Gabe Sisk

So as previously stated in my google slides presentation are both image types however they differ in what they look like and how they are used. So quick summary vector graphics or SVG, "Scaleable Vector graphics", are images or sometimes shaped that can be scaled up or down in size and will always adjust accordingly meaning it will always look the same and not grainy. Whereas bitmapped images are used in most image technology today and the larger or smaller you scale from the original size the more grainy it will look. [The picture will sum up what I mean by bit-like](https://presentationteam.com/bitmap-and-vector-graphics-in-presentations/). 
-
So To move on to what to use them for and how to go about making them. Vector graphics are more used in your average everyday website structure design. Such as websites with blocky designs or anything related to even logo design for certain companies. They are made by using a text document/HTML type coding. That means they can be edited at any time using the text document that made them and edit it from there. Websites however aren't the only thing they are used for. There are many other uses such as being used in animations that need to flow well, Embroidering, or clothing design, printing can also come down to using some sort of vector graphics. Vector graphics have many uses in today's society and many incoming IT/graphic design majors should learn how to depict them apart and know when to use them on certain projects.
-
When it comes to bitmapped images things change dramatically. So where you can change the size of a vector graphic without the looks changing bitmapped images are the opposite. This is for one reason and it's the main reason why bitmapped are more widely used and that is because they use tiny bits to capture each color more in-depth. Any picture taken on phones, movies, video games, or anything that requires a large color variation is using bitmapped images. The only downside is as was said and that is when they are scaled up to any more than their original size they become very grainy. Scaling them down doesn't affect them nearly as much as upscaling. The uses for these are honestly limitless and I don't see changing anytime soon because of the large need for color in these areas of interest.
-
